---
title: 'John Vervaeke'
date: 2023-11-22
permalink: /posts/2023/11/Vervaeke/
tags:
  - podcast
---

Some summary of Lex Fridman and John Vervaeke's talk: 

Meaning
---
When we think of meaning, it’s better to think of meaning in life (factors that make life worth the suffering endured) as opposed to meaning of life (metaphysical claim). There is a strong assumption of the second kind of meaning: ppl assume the existence of a feature of universe that they need to discover and enter a relationship into. 

Source of meaning: connectedness to self/world with values independent of egocentric concerns. E.g raising child, career pursuit

Lots of times the search of meaning of life is an escape of unsatisfying mundane reality. It’s a romantic bullshit, like god. You put to much on it and it breaks. 

As you get older, your temporal horizon flips: you don’t live from your birth; you live towards your death.

Wisdom
---
Intelligence: what you use to solve a problem
Rationality: how you use your intelligence to solve the self-deception that emerges during problem-solving
Wisdom/framing: since there are multiple ways of knowing, you need wisdom to coordinate the rationalities/intelligences

Relevance realization
---
Evolution & cognitive framework: there are processes that constantly open up variation and processes that constantly make selections. No middleman. E.g. sympathetic & parasympathetic system

This gives you an optimal grip of reality. E.g I say “he is my friend” rather than “he is a male that I hang out with a lot” or “he is close connectedness”. To interact with a concept, we need a balance between similarity between sub-categories and differences among other categories. 

Reality
---
Comparative: To say A is an illusion, u need to say A is illusory against the standard of realness. Similarly how we generate insights with more knowledge.
