---
title: 'Huberman Lab Summary: Dopamine Mindset & Drive'
date: 2023-10-28
permalink: /posts/2023/10/Dopamine/
tags:
  - Psychology
---

3 key questions I seek to address in this blog:
1. How dopamine affects motivation?
2. What are the techniques to manage dopamine level optimally?
3. Other chemicals that affect motivation I should look out for
   
Theory
======

Dopamine
------
Dopamine is the driver for seeking.
What dopamine is responsible for: motivation, drive, craving, time perception, movement, desire to pursue more in order to reduce yearning
What dopamine isn't responsible for: pure pleasure.

Dopamine release is a combo of tonic (baseline) and phasic (peaks) release.  Dopamine increases when a reward is found, but then drops below the baseline level. The extent to which dopamine drops below baseline is proportional to how high the peak was. Note that in many natural cases, just thinking about your craving can increase the amount of dopamine that's released to the same degree as actual concummption (with the exception of drugs, but that's enough to put people on the motivation track). Pleasure is a function of relative height between peak and baseline.

Example: Dopamine is depleted in diseases like Parkinson's and Lewy body dementia, leading to shaky movements, difficulty speaking, and drops in motivation and mood.

Surprising things that increase dopamine: Oxytocin and social connection, validating a preexisting belief.

Balance: Addiction/Pursuit vs Satisfaction
------
How does dopamine cause addiction? When we release dopamine there also comes a low level of pain. The craving we feel is both dopamine and pain. Each next time the dopamine release and pleasure is diminished a little bit, while the pain response is increased a little bit. So much of our pursuit of pleasure is simply to reduce the pain of craving.

Dopamine makes us focused on things outside us that are where we have to take action to achieve things. On the other hand, serotonin directs focus into our immediate here and now. Over-exposure of either system would look like rabid pursuit of things or over-contentment. So the most important thing in creating a healthy emotional landscape is to have a balance between these two neuromodulator systems.

Procastination
------
Tools for procastination: 25 or 30 cycles of in deep inhales and exhales. It's likely to create some anxiety and a low level stress. 

Practical Tools
======
Manage dopamine spikes:

Do's:
1. Growth mindset: learning to access intrinsic rewards from effort and doing. Extrinsic rewards can make us associate less pleasure with the activity itself. So don't spike dopamine prior to or after engaging in effort.
2. Telling yourself that certain behaviors are good for you can reinforce the extent to which they are good for you at a chemical level.
3. Thinking back after positive experience: Oh, that was really cool. I really enjoy doing that work. I really enjoyed the discovery, the people. Look back to the photos. 
that with the people that I was working with at the time, what a pleasure that was. 
4. Regular ingestion of caffeine increases upregulation of certain dopamine receptors
5. Cold shower every other morning: cold water exposure can increase dopamine levels up to 2.5 times above baseline.
6. Avoid light 10pm-4am

Don'ts:
1. Layering together multiple substances and activities that lead to big dopamine increases can create issues with motivation and energy. No more energy drinkgs/pre-workout
2. Avoid chemicals that increase dopamine, e.g. melatonin.

Other chemicals
======
Epinephrine (adrenaline): Dopamine and epinephrine work together to make individuals seek out certain things
