---
title: 'Habits'
date: 2024-9-22
permalink: /posts/2024/9/habits/
tags:
  - Self-help
---

My Daily Routine:
===


Morning:
---
No electronics before out of home. 

Wake up - Bathroom - Drink water - Silence/EMO - Affirmation - Visualization - Exercise - Pack and Get Out


**EMO(emotional optimization meditation):**

Start with breathing, choose a mental state (confidence, gratitude, etc), aligning physiology (smile, sit up straight, put shoulder back), 
fill my mind with positive thoughts and images, acknowledge the unsupportive thoughts and replace them with positive ones.

*When encountered a difficult problem, I am confident that I can always start from basics, try different routes. Sometimes I can't figure it out. But I can always look at solutions, learn, ask for help.*
*I will be rejected, unappreciated, and experience unfortunate events. And I will calm down, rest, and embrace challenges confidently because they enable me to learn, adapt, and become a better version of myself.*
*In micro conversations, I always look people in their eye confidently and playfully.*
*During hard times, ask myself: When was the last time I felt in optimal mental state? What did it feel like? How would I show up now if I felt that way? What would I think? What would I do?*

**Affirmation:**

Read with emotion and conviction!

*I am committed to becoming a quant trader no matter what - there is no other option!*

This is because:
*I hate boring jobs far more than difficult or stressful ones. If I don't want to waste 5 years doing bitch work, grind the next 12 months.*
*I like intellectual challenges with wins and losses. Otherwise my passion slowly erodes.*
*The ability to rationally analyze the risks and rewards behind decisions is a core life skill.*
*I want to stay in the US, accumulate enough capital to protect my loved ones from tail risks.*
*Equity research sucks.*


ABC Principle: Accept reality, Be grateful, Choose your optimal state

*Reality is harsh: Life can be difficult, unfair, painful, and push the limits of being utterly unbearable —— which I should expect as a risk-taker and grinder. However, feeling regret or inner turmoil is not the solution —— it is simply my unconscious resistance to reality. I only escape to wishing I did things perfectly so I don't have to face the problems at hand.*

*Be gratful: I am grateful to hardships: only adversities offer me an opportunity to learn, grow, and become better than we’ve ever been. The greater my adversity, the greater my destiny; I’m grateful for my free time, energy to realize my potential, a comfortable bed, food, family, and friendship.* 

*I have a choice: At every point of life, there are things that I have to feel bad about (regrets, fears, people we don’t like), and things we have to feel good about (health, life, roof over my head, education, love, food). Both lists are endless. Everyone has access to both. What I feel is my choice but not based on external conditions. I may look back one day and regret all the time I spent crying in bed and now allowing myself to be productive. I am in the process of writing my life story, and no good story is without a hero overcoming their fair share of challenges. I must be willing to accept responsibility for every aspect of my life from this point forward and refuse to give away my power by blaming anyone else or circumstances. I am just as capable of creating the life I’m committed to as any other person on earth, and I will prove that today with my actions!*

**Visualization:**

Image the feeling of crossing finishing line, map out the day, and imagine I work on the tasks smiling with conviction 


Night:
===

Take supplement - prepare workout & day clothes - Map out the next day

**Affirmation:**

*I am grateful that I am getting 7 hours of sleep. I know that my mindset influences my biology. So, regardless of how much I sleep tonight, I will wake up feeling energized and excited to do my Miracle Morning. I want to create the most extraordinary life I can imagine.*


