---
title: 'Collecting the Gems'
date: 2024-11-30
permalink: /posts/2024/11/gem/

---
What I read, think, and reflect today.

2024.12.3
===
Trying to figure out how to stay focus & motivated.

2024.12.2
===
The value of college lies in knowledge and connections. With AI's rise, acquiring knowledge has shifted from studying textbooks to finding data sources and understanding key matters. College doesn't teach you any of these. What truly matters now are connections. Focus on understanding the passions of those around you.

2024.12.1
===
Thrive to be better than who I was yesterday. Watch Kobe speech. 


2024.11.30
===

**Dealing with failure**

My response to failure has been essentially 5 steps: denial - anger - bargaining - depressed - acceptance. When rejected after an interview, my initial reaction is denial: *How is that possible? I didn’t do badly at all*. Then comes anger: *This is ridiculous, I don’t care about them anyway*. Next, I bargain, seeking alternatives like reapplying to other offices. When those efforts fail, sadness sets in—I regret my laziness, lack of preparation, or freezing under pressure. Eventually, I accept it and move on.

The solution? Embrace the negative feelings, shorten the cycle, and return to my routine with renewed focus.

**Optimism**

What defines a hero? An empire builder, a revolutionary, or even a redeemed villain? Here's a definition I recently embraced: true heroism is about ending your own suffering and spreading happiness to others. Life is tough, but let’s cut the weep and joke about it instead.
