---
title: 'Collecting the Gems'
date: 2024-12-3
permalink: /posts/2024/12/gem/

---
What I read, think, and reflect today.

2024.12.16
===
Worked 2h10min
Found a good book review website!

2024.12.15
===
Worked 4h50min

From now on discount working hours by the intensity of work. 

2024.12.14
===
Worked 4h58min

Strop scrolling social media at night tremendously enhances my focus.

2024.12.13
===
Worked 4h12min

Affirmation and proactive reflections are effective.

刚刚走在回家的路上，有很多落下的银杏叶，就像南京的一样。我想起来3年前遇到的许多人，3年后和他们交谈感觉基本没有变化。随着环境变化大家都多了domain knowledge，但人是没变的。我不希望别人和我聊天时也有这种感觉。三年前我犯的错，我的好高骛远，不自律，封闭，我看到仍然在现在的我身上。Be more conscientious about the mistakes I made, things I failed to do. 接受不适感，不断改进。

2024.12.12
===
Worked 2h

Practice affirmation, gratidude, and nature.

2024.12.11
===
Worked 3h10min

2024.12.10
===
Worked 2h40min

I feel like I can't concentrate well that last 3 days. Figure out why.

2024.12.9
=== 
Worked 1h30min

Some feedback for my betting game:
-	Not proficient in card product. e.g. Product > 50? 
-	Imprecise arbitrage sizing when under time pressure
-	Rough rounding when it’s not necessary 


2024.12.8
===
Worked 30min

Read Thinking Fast and Slow for debiasing

Replace Hi with a compliment

2024.12.7
===
Rest day

2024.12.6
===
Worked 3h30min

Most of my "hard work" at this moment are repaying the debt of past procastination. 

2024.12.5
===
Worked 3h20min

The best recovery is simply avoiding looking at my phone. Build habit of reflecting on the past hour and feeling satisfaction/discontent. 

Incorporate more intuition for future HRT interviews.

2024.12.4
===
Worked 2h30min

Visual focus is useful. Figure out tools for recovery during the day.

2024.12.3
===
Worked 2h

Figure out tools for focus & motivation. Try out gazing a point for 60s.

2024.12.2
===
Worked 3h50min

The value of college lies in knowledge and connections. With AI's rise, acquiring knowledge has shifted from studying textbooks to finding data sources and understanding key matters. College doesn't teach you any of these. What truly matters now are connections. Focus on understanding the passions of those around you.

2024.12.1
===
Worked 1h57min

Thrive to be better than who I was yesterday. Watch Kobe speech. 


2024.11.30
===

**Dealing with failure**

My response to failure has been essentially 5 steps: denial - anger - bargaining - depressed - acceptance. When rejected after an interview, my initial reaction is denial: *How is that possible? I didn’t do badly at all*. Then comes anger: *This is ridiculous, I don’t care about them anyway*. Next, I bargain, seeking alternatives like reapplying to other offices. When those efforts fail, sadness sets in—I regret my laziness, lack of preparation, or freezing under pressure. Eventually, I accept it and move on.

The solution? Embrace the negative feelings, shorten the cycle, and return to my routine with renewed focus.

**Optimism**

What defines a hero? An empire builder, a revolutionary, or even a redeemed villain? Here's a definition I recently embraced: true heroism is about ending your own suffering and spreading happiness to others. Life is tough, but let’s cut the weep and joke about it instead.
